Skip to
content
Kaggle

Create
Home

Competitions

Datasets

Models

Code

Discussions

Learn

More

Your Work


Viewed

How To Ensemble with RMSLE


Predict Calorie Expenditure


Predict Podcast Listening Time


1st Place - RAPIDS cuML Stack - 3 Levels!


Yale/UNC-CH - Geophysical Waveform Inversion


Edited

waveform-inversion Kaggle competition tutorial


KNAI 2024-09-30


xgboost single model


2024-10-15 custom communities v2


Scrape KRS


Bookmarks

OTTO – Multi-Objective Recommender System


Which is the right feature importance?


8
View Active Events

Search

Kaggle · Playground Prediction Competition · a month to go
Predict Calorie Expenditure
Playground Series - Season 5, Episode 5


Predict Calorie Expenditure

Submit Prediction
Overview
Welcome to the 2025 Kaggle Playground Series! We plan to continue in the spirit of previous playgrounds, providing interesting and approachable datasets for our community to practice their machine learning skills, and anticipate a competition each month.

Your Goal: Your goal is to predict how many calories were burned during a workout.

Start

5 days ago
Close
a month to go
Evaluation
The evaluation metric for this competition is Root Mean Squared Logarithmic Error.

The RMSLE is calculated as:
where:

 is the total number of observations in the test set,
 is the predicted value of the target for instance (i),
 is the actual value of the target for instance (i), and,
 is the natural logarithm.
Submission File
For each id row in the test set, you must predict the continuous target, Calories. The file should contain a header and have the following format:

id,Calories
750000,93.2
750001,27.42
750002,103.8
etc.
content_copy
Timeline
Start Date - May 1, 2025
Entry Deadline - Same as the Final Submission Deadline
Team Merger Deadline - Same as the Final Submission Deadline
Final Submission Deadline - May 31, 2025
All deadlines are at 11:59 PM UTC on the corresponding day unless otherwise noted. The competition organizers reserve the right to update the contest timeline if they deem it necessary.

About the Tabular Playground Series
The goal of the Tabular Playground Series is to provide the Kaggle community with a variety of fairly light-weight challenges that can be used to learn and sharpen skills in different aspects of machine learning and data science. The duration of each competition will generally only last a few weeks, and may have longer or shorter durations depending on the challenge. The challenges will generally use fairly light-weight datasets that are synthetically generated from real-world data, and will provide an opportunity to quickly iterate through various model and feature engineering ideas, create visualizations, etc.

Synthetically-Generated Datasets
Using synthetic data for Playground competitions allows us to strike a balance between having real-world data (with named features) and ensuring test labels are not publicly available. This allows us to host competitions with more interesting datasets than in the past. While there are still challenges with synthetic data generation, the state-of-the-art is much better now than when we started the Tabular Playground Series two years ago, and that goal is to produce datasets that have far fewer artifacts. Please feel free to give us feedback on the datasets for the different competitions so that we can continue to improve!

Prizes
1st Place - Choice of Kaggle merchandise
2nd Place - Choice of Kaggle merchandise
3rd Place - Choice of Kaggle merchandise
Please note: In order to encourage more participation from beginners, Kaggle merchandise will only be awarded once per person in this series. If a person has previously won, we'll skip to the next team.

Citation
Walter Reade and Elizabeth Park. Predict Calorie Expenditure. https://kaggle.com/competitions/playground-series-s5e5, 2025. Kaggle.


Cite
Competition Host
Kaggle

Prizes & Awards
Swag

Does not award Points or Medals

Participation
2,924 Entrants

1,157 Participants

1,126 Teams

5,986 Submissions

Tags
Beginner
Tabular
Mean Squared Log Error
Table of Contents



DATA DESCTRIPTION

Dataset Description
The dataset for this competition (both train and test) was generated from a deep learning model trained on the Calories Burnt Prediction dataset. Feature distributions are close to, but not exactly the same, as the original. Feel free to use the original dataset as part of this competition, both to explore differences as well as to see whether incorporating the original in training improves model performance.

Files
train.csv - the training dataset; Calories is the continuous target
test.csv - the test dataset; your objective is to predict the Calories for each row
sample_submission.csv - a sample submission file in the correct format.